1. INTRODUCTION:

Basically, children cannot complain about abusements that they face in
their daily life to their parents. They can’t even realize what actually happens to
them at their age. It is also difficult for parents to identify their children are being
abused. Since to prevent children before being attacked, an autonomous real-time
monitoring system is necessary for every child out there. In this system, the
collected values from every sensor like temperature sensor, pulse rate detection
sensor, metal detection sensor, and the location value from GPS are used to detect
the status of the child and alerts the respective guardians using GSM accordingly.

2. LITERATURE SURVEY:

A. RFID-based System for School Children Transportation Safety
Enhancement This paper presents a system to monitor pick-up/drop-off of school
children to enhance the safety of children during daily transportation from and to
school. The system consists of two main units, a bus unit, and a school unit. The
bus unit the system is used to detect when a child boards or leaves the bus. This
information is communicated to the school unit that identifies which of the
children did not board or leave the bus and issues an alert message accordingly.
The system has a developed web-based database-driven application that facilities
its management and provides useful information about the children to authorized
personnel. A complete prototype of the proposed system was implemented and
tested to validate the system functionality. The results show that the system is
promising for daily transportation safety.

B. Design and Development of an IOT based wearable device for the
Safety and Security of women and girl children The aim of this work is to develop
a wearable device for the safety and protection of women and girls. This objective
is achieved by the analysis of physiological signals in conjunction with body
position. The physiological signals that are analyzed are galvanic skin resistance
and body temperature. Body position is determined by acquiring raw
accelerometer data from a triple axis accelerometer. International Conference on
Physics and Photonics Processes in Nano Sciences Journal of Physics:
Conference Series 1362 (2019) 012012 IOP Publishing doi:10.1088/1742-
6596/1362/1/012012 2 Acquisition of raw data is then followed by activity
recognition which is a process of employing a specialized machine learning
algorithm. Real-time monitoring of data is achieved by wirelessly sending sensor
data to an open source Cloud Platform. Analysis of the data is done on MATLAB
simultaneously. This device is programmed to continuously monitor the subject’s

parameters and take action when any dangerous situation presents itself. It does
so by detecting the change in the monitored signals, following which appropriate
action is taken by means of sending notifications/alerts to designated individuals.

C. Child Safety Wearable Device Parents need not have a smart mobile.

Set of keywords are used to gain information from the kit. LOCATION keyword
is used to obtain the location of the child. UV keyword is used to obtain the
temperature of the surroundings. BUZZ keyword is used to turn on the buzzer
which is fixed in that device. SOS is used to send a signal to the device.

D. Smart Intelligent System for Women and Child Security A portable

device which will have a pressure switch. As soon as an assailant is about to
attack the person or when the person senses any insecurity from a stranger, he/she
can then put pressure on the device by squeezing or compressing it. Instantly the
pressure sensor senses this pressure and a conventional SMS, with the victim’s
location will be sent to their parents/guardian cell phone numbers stored in the
device while purchasing it, followed by a call. If the call is unanswered for a
prolonged time, a call will be redirected to the police and the same message will
be sent. Additionally, if the person crosses some area which is usually not
accessed by the person then a message with the real-time location is sent to the
parent/guardian's phone via conventional SMS.

3. EXISTING SYSTEM :

Real-Time Child Abuse and Reporting System In the existing system,
we use a voice recognition module in which the alert commands from the child
are stored and kept for further reference. If the same child delivers the same
command, it will compare with the alert command which was previously stored
and sets an emergency level according to the alert command. The GSM has a SIM
which is used to send an alert message or an alert call to the trusted peoples. GPS
is used to track the live location and it is used when needed. The server will search
the respective device ID from the database and search for respective contacts
according to that device ID and helps in alerting the registered guardians. The
disadvantage of this project are, i. The child could not produce the exact alert
command during a panic condition. ii. The command produced may not match
with the previously stored command. iii. This project requires manual
intervention. 4. PROPOSED SYSTEM International Conference on Physics and
Photonics Processes in Nano Sciences Journal of Physics: Conference Series
1362 (2019) 012012 IOP Publishing doi:10.1088/1742-6596/1362/1/012012 3 In
the existing system, manual intervention was required. But in the proposed

system, we make every action autonomously. Fig.1: Block diagram of the
proposed system We can use both web application as well as mobile application
or either one of it as the front end user interface, cloud, and database as the back
end for storing and retrieving information, and a device for monitoring. Fig.2:
GPS GPS is used to track the live location of the child who is wearing that device.
With the help of GPS, we can easily perform Geo-fencing concept, in which we
will be able to feed a particular boundary to that device. Fig.3: GSM If the child
goes beyond that particular boundary specified, the respective guardians will
receive an alert call using GSM. In our system, we use several components like,

1.Temperature sensor 2.Pulse sensor 3.GPS 4.GSM 5.Web camera 6.Raspberry

pi microprocessor International Conference on Physics and Photonics Processes
in Nano Sciences Journal of Physics: Conference Series 1362 (2019) 012012 IOP
Publishing doi:10.1088/1742-6596/1362/1/012012 4 The Temperature sensor is
used to sense the surrounding temperature of the device. If the temperature level
exceeds the room temperature then the alert message will be sent using GSM to
the specified users. Fig.4 : TEMPERATURE SENSOR The Pulse sensor is used
to detect any abnormal feelings experienced by the child like fear, anxiety,
nervousness, drowsiness and several other illnesses which manipulates the
normal heart rate. Fig.6 :PULSE SENSOR These values are used to alert the
specified guardians through SMS using GSM. When the user receives these alert
messages from that device, they can turn on the web camera placed in that device,
with which they can visually monitor the status of that child through the live video
stream. Fig.7 : WEB CAMERA 5.

WORKING:

Our proposed system consists of Raspberry Pi microprocessor in which
all other sensors, GPS and GSM are integrated. The users are required to register
using their credentials to use the application. The device will be given to the
children for monitoring them regularly. We will feed the boundary value while
writing code for the system and we control it using GPS for that device which is
also known as Geo Fencing. These data are stored in the server. International
Conference on Physics and Photonics Processes in Nano Sciences Journal of

Physics: Conference Series 1362 (2019) 012012 IOP Publishing

doi:10.1088/1742-6596/1362/1/012012 5 Fig. 8: Architecture diagram of the
proposed system If the device moves, out of that boundary the server transfers an
alert call by activating the GSM, to the user. The live location of the device will
be updated in the server and pinged in the website for every few seconds. The
server side coding was written in PHP and the controller side coding was written

in Python. The user will receive an alert call and after entering the login ID and
password, they can check the live location through GPS, which was updated in
the application. When giving boundary for the school unit, we can also maintain
attendance by updating the entry and exit of the child, in and out, of school in the
application. We feed specific threshold values for sensors like temperature and
pulse in which, if the device exceeds those threshold values or if the device gets
exposed to abnormal condition then those values tend to be updated in the server.
The server compares the currently obtained values with the coded threshold
values, if they are beyond the threshold value, it generates an alert message
through GSM. The alert messages are delivered to specified users in the form of
SMS and the user can be able to login to the application to check the status and
updated information. After receiving the alert messages, if the user wants to
visually check the status of the child, they are required to enter specific IP address
of that camera for the first time before syncing and can be able to watch the live
streaming videos which are updated to the server, for further uses they can
directly view. The microprocessor is used to control all these actions and the alert
was done by checking for specific user of that device in the database. 6.

RESULTS :

One of the module in our project is temperature sensor which is used to
detect the temperature of the child as well as the surrounding temperature. If there
occurs any abnormal rise or fall in temperature in the body of the child or in the
surrounding it will notify the user as per the coded time delay as shown in the
picture. It will show the temperature and humidity values notifies the user based
on the predefined value abnormal fall or rise scenarios.

9. REFERENCES :s

[1] AkashMoodbidri, Hamid Shahnasser, ”Child Safety Wearable Device”,
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering San Francisco State
University.
[2] AnandJatti, MadhviKannan , Alisha RM, Vijayalakshmi P, ShresthaSinha, "
Design and Development of an IOT based wearable device forthe Safety and
Security of women and girl children “, IEEE International Conference On Recent
Trends In Electronics Information Communication Technology, May 20-21,
2016, India.

[3] Anwaar Al-Lawati, Shaikha Al-Jahdhami,
[4] " RFID-based System for School Children Transportation Safety
Enhancement ", Proceedings of the 8th IEEE GCC Conference and Exhibition,
Muscat, Oman, 1-4 February 2015.
[5] Dr. R. Kamalraj, ” A Hybrid Model on Child Security and Activities
Monitoring System using IoT”, IEEE Xplore Compliant Part Number:
CFP18N67-ART; ISBN:978-1-5386-2456-2.
[6] Pooja.K.Biradar1, Prof S.B.Jamge2,” An Innovative Monitoring Application
for Child Safety”, DOI:10.15680/IJIRSET.2015.0409093.
[7] Prof. Sunil K Punjabi, Prof. Suvarna Chaure, "Smart Intelligent System for
Women and Child Security” Department of Computer Engineering SIES
Graduate School of Technology Nerul, Navi Mumbai, India.
[8] Sarifah Putri Raflesia, Firdaus, Dinda Lestarini, “An Integrated Child Safety
using Geo-fencing Information on Mobile Devices", INTERNATIONAL
CONFERENCE ON ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING AND COMPUTER
SCIENCE (ICECOS) 2018.
[9] Zejun Huang1, ZhigangGao,” An Mobile Safety Monitoring System for
Children”, 2014 10th International Conference on Mobile Ad-hoc and Sensor
Network.